# Chapter 10: Sequence Hacking, Hashing, and Slicing
## Protocols and Duck Typing
- Protocol: informal interface defined only in documentation and not in code.
    - ex: sequence protocol: any class that implements `__len__` and `__getitem__` is understood to be a sequence type.
- Duck typing: Objects are defined by their behavior rather than a formal class hierarchy.
    - ex: An object is a sequence if I can call `len` on it and access its elements by index.

## Implementing slicing with `__getitem__`
- When slice notation is used, `__getitem__` gets called on a `slice` object
    - e.g. `seq[2:10:3]` is the same as `seq.__getitem__(slice(2, 10, 3))`
- syntax: `slice(start, stop, step)`
    - `start`: first index included in the slice
    - `end`: index following the last index included in the slice
    - `stride`: include every n-th element between start and end
        - defaults to `None`, in which case every consecutive index is included in the slice
- `start`, `stop` and `step` are actually attributes of a `slice` object:

    ```python
        >>> s = slice(4, 14, 3)
        >>> s.start
        4
        >>> s.stop
        14
        >>> s.step
        3
    ```
- If slice notation is used with a comma separated list of arguments, then `__getitem__` is called on a tuple of slice objects
    - e.g. `seq[1:3, 3:10:2]` is the same as `seq.__getitem__((slice(1, 3, None), slice(3, 10, 2)))`

## Dynamic attribute access
- `__getattr__` is accessed by the interpreter when an attribute lookup fails

## Tricks and Tips
- Using `cls = type(self)` at the top of an instance method gives access to class attributes without accessing instance attributes. This was useful when overriding `__getattr__` and `__setattr__`, which were giving me recursion errors when they were called from the constructor. 
- It is good practice to keep `__hash__` and `__eq__` close in source code.
- Python3's `map` function creates a generator that lazily yields results, whereas python2's `map` returns a list. This means `map` is just as efficient as a generator expression when using the map-reduce pattern.
