# Interfaces: From Protocols to ABCs

## Interfaces and Protocols
- Interface: the collection of methods and attributes that a class or module exposes for use by the rest of the program
- Statically typed languages like Java define formal interfaces. The code will not compile if a class does not implement
every method defined in its interface.
- Dynamically typed languages like Python, Ruby, and Javascript use Protocols, which are informal interfaces not 
enforced by the language, but followed by programmers as a best practice.

## Python Data model tries to abide by protocols
- Ex: Sequence Protocol
- Abstract base class for a sequence:
    - has an abstract `__getitem__` method
    - implements concrete `__contains__`, `__iter__` and `__reversed__` methods
- If a programmer implements their own sequence like object with only a `__getitem__` method, there are default implementations of the other 3 methods. 

## Monkey Patching Example
- *Monkey Patching* - changing a class or module at runtime, without modifying the source code.
- French Deck example:
    - `FrenchDeck` class did not implement a shuffle method
    - Author monkey patches the `__setitem__` method by making a direct assignment
        ```python
        FrenchDeck.__setitem__ = set_card
        ```
    - `__setitem__` is part of the mutable sequence protocol.
    - The `random.shuffle` method works on mutable sequences, so it can now be called on `FrenchDeck` instances.
- **Warning**: Monkey Patched code is tightly coupled.

## Alex Martelli Guest Essay on ABCs
- Duck typing requires avoiding use of isinstance to check types.
- Allows for more flexible programs.
- Shortcoming of duck typing: unrelated objects may share a method name that behaves differently in each context.
- Ex:
    ```python
        Class Artist:
            def draw(self): ...

        Class Gunslinger:
            def draw(self): ...
    ```
- *Goose typing* - account for context by using abstract base classes
    - okay to use isinstance, provided it is only used on ABCs.
- suggests not implementing custom ABCs, but making use of the ABCs that classes implicitly inherit from through protocols
- Inheriting from an ABC can be used to communicate intent and give context.

## Subclassing ABCs
- Python defines ABCs for users to inherit from. These should cover a large percentage of use cases, and inheriting from an existing ABC is often a better choice than defining a new one.
    - Exception: if you are writing a framework
- Implementations of ABCs are checked at runtime, and the interpreter raises a `TypeError` if a method of an abstract class is not implemented by the subclass.
### ABCs from the standard library
- **collections.abc module** : [python docs](https://docs.python.org/3/library/collections.abc.html)
- **numbers module**: [python docs](https://docs.python.org/3/library/numbers.html)
    - use for type checks. e.g. `isinstance(x, numbers.Integral)` instead of `isinstance(x, int)` where you want to include `bool`, `int`, and types from other libraries that have been registered as virtual subclasses of `numbers.Integral`.

## Creating custom ABCs
- Inherit from `abc.ABC`
- use `@abstractmethod` decorator
- `register` method: registers a *virtual subclass* of an abc. This will change the behavior of `isinstance` and `issubclass` calls, but will not require the virtual subclass to implement abstract methods from the base class.
## Key Takeaways
- Following established protocols improves the chances of reusing standard library and third party code.
- Try implementing existing ABCs from the standard library before creating your own.
- Implementing ABCs can give you default method implementations for free.